Principles and Practice of Conscientious Mechanism
==================================================

Introduction
------------

The universe is a vast machine, even the most massive of celestial events are 
governed by the interaction of the same set of physical rules that govern the 
minutiae of our daily lives. Any machine left unmaintained is bound to an 
entropic decline into chaos; a functioning universe needs engineers: this is us.

Humanity represents the pinnacle of organised systems, our emergent intelligence 
has allowed us to pick up the baton from evolution and be the masters of our own 
development.

Some would look into the coldness of the mechanical universe and see a bleak 
prospect; we, however, see a system to be explored and harnessed to further the 
growth of our species.

Some theists would say that a society without sin or the threat of damnation 
would be an immoral one; we counter that argument with the observation that a 
person choosing of their own free will rather than being motivated by the fear 
of spiritual punishment is performing a more honest individual act. Good and 
Evil, although subjective by their nature, can be translated into general rules 
on which the majority can agree; good acts further society whilst evil acts harm 
it. There is no direct karma system in the universe but a long chain of cause and 
effect whereby acts with good intentions will normally cause good outcomes. A 
well intended act that has no noticeable direct effect may be the root of a 
desirable outcome at the end of a long chain of events or, at very least, a 
well-intentioned act builds the character of the individual performing the it, 
strengthening their predisposition towards good acts.

The beliefs of Conscientious Mechanism, therefore, are built around the core 
goal of understanding the workings of the universe in order to act in a way that 
benefits the greater good whilst, in the short-term, providing members of our 
group with the support to excel above the crowd. 

Our goals are, of course, highly ambitious and difficult to achieve in the 
current socio-political climate; therefore, we are acting as a closed group, 
inviting members to join us only once they have been observed to exemplify the 
values that we aim to cultivate. When such a time arises that the prevailing 
culture of greed, ignorance, intolerance and selfishness makes way for a more 
enlightened, forward-thinking one, we will be ready to step forward and act as 
paragons of progress driving our culture to greater heights.


The Operation of Conscientious Mechanism as a Group
---------------------------------------------------

Conscientious Mechanism is a group of peers interacting on a pure democratic 
basis; the group is completely self-governing and does not grant any external 
authority jurisdiction over any aspect of it's operation. Any externally 
bestowed rank or position is rendered meaningless within the group; each member
is to be considered on their words and actions.

It will benefit the group's goals to remain low-key, we will not publicise our 
existence and will only reveal ourselves to potential members through personal 
recommendation from existing members. Outside of the group, members are to act 
as individuals but are expected to learn from the teachings of their peers and 
continue to improve themselves and act in an exemplary fashion, inspiring the 
public to emulate their behaviour. If questioned about the motives for their 
deeds, a Conscientious Mechanist should simply reply that they are doing the 
right thing according to their personal beliefs.

The Conscientious Mechanist Oath
--------------------------------

I [YOUR NAME] most solemnly and sincerely declare my intent to embody the values 
of Conscientious Mechanism:

1. I will uphold moral values without exception and guide others 
similarly. I will never impose on others what I would not choose for myself.

2. I will endeavour to further my understanding of all things, with the 
knowledge that all things are ultimately understandable.

3. My body is the tool with which I realise my intentions. I will hone both my 
body and mind in order to become a paragon of the virtues of Conscientious 
Mechanism.

4. My actions will always reflect my intent; my word is my bond.

5. I will judge a person solely by their actions, taking no heed of preconceptions.

6. I will fight for universal, unrestricted freedom of expression.

7. I will constantly question authority. I will not impose arbitrary authority on 
others nor will I accept the same.



freedom of expression
a person's thoughts are their own

[Notes:]
 - The does not exist a good enough reason to undermine your morals.
 - Time is finite, don't waste it on...
 - Equality 
 - Further one's self in all ways and, as a direct result, become a paragon of good and a positive catalyst to change
 - Give fealty to no imposed authority and do not impose autority onto others; respect can only be earned not expected.
 - Question authority
 - My word is my bond
 - Never impose on others what you would not choose for yourself.
 - seek to understand all that I survey


"Uncompromising integrity is my standard. My character and honour are steadfast. My word is my bond." - SEALs Creed
 
 
 most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear
 
 of my own free will and accord
 
with a firm and steady resolution 

#################################################################################

Purpose

A forum for free discussion and the dissemination of information.

An academy for the exchange of knowledge and skills

A pool of resources to help individuals and the group advance.
